hi Susan from the pattern place again
something just a little bit different
today I've been using some oven-baked
clay to make my own embellishments so
I've made a little key and lock which
i'm going to use on my next album i
really enjoy making my own tailored
embellishments for it for things so i've
been using this at some primo clay it's
an oven-baked clay and on the internet i
purchased a mold so this has several
keys and several lakhs in it and i used
for this one i used this one here and
for the key that goes with it it was yes
this one here so they I just rolled out
the clay and conditioned it pressed it
into the mold I didn't need to use any
powders or oils or anything this is a
flexible silicone mold so they came out
really easily and then you need to open
bake them for about half an hour just
follow the instructions on your brand of
clay some are even air dry i believe and
now it's come out i'm just using this
file set that i've had for a while it
doesn't have a name on it but you might
rip some of you might recognize the
packaging that it has a whole range of
files and I've just been going around
and just meeting it up a little bit for
one of a better word
so I've just gone around the edges and
across the back as well just to make
sure that it's flat and it's going to
sit nice and flat on my on my album
cover and then they also have a lots of
little flowers for giving in to all the
little crevices which is very useful
I've discovered so I'm just going round
and tithing it all up like that so it's
not perfect but that's sort of what I
like about it the key is well using this
I can get inside here and just tidy it
up and I decided to use brown purely
because that was the clay I had open it
at the time and i'll show you what i was
doing with it when i was inspired to do
this as well while I had the clay out so
there's the key I think that's pretty
good at it make sure it's nice and flat
on the back it should be fairly flat
because when I pressed it into the mold
when i press the clay into here i used a
blade just to slide across the top and
take off any excess clay so they are
already fairly flat on the back we're
going to call that done and then what i
thought i would do to make them more
look a bit more aged as i thought i
would use some of my distress inks so I
might I've got black here and I've got
walnuts oh maybe let's just start with
the walnut
and just rub some of that on somewhere
in my cupboard I've got some gold
highlight as well so I might to go and
search that out just to give them a
little bit of a metallic look which
should be quite nice but this is already
giving them an aged appearance and when
I was looking for my mold silicone molds
on the Internet there were lots of
different ones so you can do heaps of
different things so let's change over
now and we'll bring in the black suit oh
yes that's looking lovely I'm happy with
that oh yeah that's looking very nice
let me bring it up a bit more for you
guys to see my fingers are getting the
treatment as well that that's looking
really good now can the key
beautiful okay let's just want what I
can off and I'll show you why I was
playing around with the brown play in
the first place I was making chocolates
so these are polymer clay chocolates
they look good enough to eat actually I
fooled my husband last night because I
had them just drawing on the tray ready
to go into the oven so they were very
effective this one's got little shavings
on the top this is a square one which is
supposed to look like caramels which is
my favorite chocolate the good thing
about this is they have no calories and
then the next oh this is our a mint
stick and after-dinner mint stick and
then what you can do is instead of
making them a solid brown color you can
put a different color inside and then
use a cutter to make it look like
someone's taking a bite out so this is a
cherry or a strawberry one and they do
look good enough to eat don't they
mm-hmm and then I did a coconut one
which happens to be my husband's
favorite so he hasn't seen it yet with
the bite taken out of it but it really
does look good doesn't it so this is the
same same clay the primo clay so if
you'd like me to show you how to do one
of those on the screen just leave a
comment and if enough of you want me to
do a tutorial on that I'm more than
happy to it was heaps of fun very very
easy and I was thinking I've got just a
nice little crystal glass plate that I
was going to arrange those on maybe I
need a few more I'm just going to
arrange those on there
just as a centerpiece with a difference
so thanks for watching again this is
Susan from the patent place by
you